# capital_efficiency_public

Automated market makers (or AMMs) were first conceived with a constant product liquidity pricing scheme, and to this day, most AMM decentralized exchanges (DEXs) employ that pricing formula. While constant product guarantees neither token in a trading pair can be completely drained, it deals with significant capital inefficiency. It also results in impermanent loss, which eats away at liquidity providers’ (LPs) profits.

DODO exchange, with the Proactive Market Maker (PMM) protocol, addresses both issues. By employing a flatter pricing curve set at an oracle-determined market price when the token balance is near equilibrium (the balance before any swapping), most swaps can happen near market exchange rates. The PMM also opens up one token liquidity for LPs, thus reducing their exposure. Finally, the PMM offsets token imbalances by compensating shortages with excesses, thus reducing impermanent loss.

We build off of the ideas enabled by DODO’s PMM to propose swapping without needing to establish trading pairs. Any token, as long as there’s liquidity, can be traded. This greatly simplifies liquidity provision for LPs, since there are no pools to choose to provide liquidity to. A direct consequence of this is liquidity is provided much more efficiently: a token’s liquidity would simultaneously serve many trading pairs. Finally, this eliminates any complexity associated with swap routing. In addressing the liquidity pools in this way, we are able to reduce impermanent loss issues, increase capital efficiency, and open the LP market to more people.
